**********
Deployment
**********

The following example documents *one way* to deploy *comics*. As *comics* is a
standard Django project with an additional batch job, it may be deployed in
just about any way a Django project may be deployed. Please refer to `Django's
deployment documentation
<http://docs.djangoproject.com/en/dev/howto/deployment/>`_ for further details.

In the following examples we assume that we are deploying *comics* at
http://comics.example.com/, using Apache, mod_wsgi, and PostgreSQL. The Django
application and batch job is both running as the user ``comics-user``. The
static media files, like comic images, are served from
http://comics.example.com/media/, but may also be served from a different host.

Example Apache vhost
====================

This example requires your Apache to have the ``mod_wsgi`` module. For
efficient static media serving and caching, you should also enable
``mod_deflate`` and ``mod_expires``, but they are optional and the following
example will work without them.

.. code-block:: apache

    <VirtualHost *:80>
        ServerName comics.example.com
        ErrorLog /var/log/apache2/comics.example.com-error.log
        CustomLog /var/log/apache2/comics.example.com-access.log combined

        # Not used, but Apache will complain if the dir does not exist
        DocumentRoot /var/www/comics.example.com

        # Static media hosting
        Alias /media/ /path/to/comics/media/
        <Location /media/>
            # Turn off directory indexes
            Options -Indexes

            # Turn on ETag generation
            FileETag MTime Size

            # Turn on compression
            <IfModule deflate_module>
                AddOutputFilterByType DEFLATE text/html text/plain text/xml text/css application/javascript
            </IfModule>

            # Set cache expire to one month from now
            <IfModule expires_module>
                ExpiresActive On
                ExpiresDefault A2592000
            </IfModule>
        </Location>

        # mod_wsgi setup
        WSGIDaemonProcess comics user=comics-user group=comics-user threads=50 maximum-requests=10000
        WSGIProcessGroup comics
        WSGIScriptAlias / /path/to/comics/wsgi/prod.wsgi
        <Directory /path/to/comics/comics/wsgi>
            Order deny,allow
            Allow from all
        </Directory>
    </VirtualHost>

For details, please refer to the documentation of the `Apache
<http://httpd.apache.org/docs/>`_ and `mod_wsgi
<http://code.google.com/p/modwsgi/>`_ projects.


Example WSGI file
=================

This is the ``prod.wsgi`` file refered to in the Apache vhost above. The
``sys.path`` line assumes that the file is located in a directory inside the
*comics* project, as the ``prod.wsgi`` shipped with *comics* is. If your WSGI
file is located elsewhere, the ``sys.path`` line must be changed to point to
whereever your *comics* project folder is located.

.. literalinclude:: ../wsgi/prod.wsgi
    :language: python


Example ``settings/local.py``
=============================

In general, you should not change the settings files shipped with *comics*, but
instead override the settings in your own ``comics/comics/settings/local.py``.
Even if you do not want to override any default settings, you must add a
``local.py`` which at least sets ``SECRET_KEY`` and most probably your database
settings. A full ``local.py`` may look like this::

    # Local settings -- do NOT commit to a VCS

    # Make this unique, and don't share it with anybody.
    SECRET_KEY = 'djdjdk5k4$(DA=!SDAD!)12312415151368edkfjgngnw3m!$!Dfafa'

    # You can override any settings here, like database settings.

    ADMINS = (
        ('Comics Webmaster', 'comics@example.com'),
    )
    MANAGERS = ADMINS

    # Database settings
    DATABASE_ENGINE = 'postgresql_psycopg2'
    DATABASE_NAME = 'comics'
    DATABASE_USER = 'comics'
    DATABASE_PASSWORD = 'euthahM7evei'
    DATABASE_HOST = 'localhost'
    DATABASE_PORT = ''

    # Internal IP addresses
    INTERNAL_IPS = ('127.0.0.1',)

    # Media
    MEDIA_ROOT = '/var/www/comics.example.com/media/'
    MEDIA_URL = 'http://comics.example.com/media/'
    COMICS_MEDIA_ROOT = '%sc/' % MEDIA_ROOT
    COMICS_MEDIA_URL = '%sc/' % MEDIA_URL

    # Caching
    CACHE_BACKEND = 'memcached://127.0.0.1:11211/'
    CACHE_MIDDLEWARE_KEY_PREFIX = 'comics'

Of course, you should change most, if not all, of these settings for your own
installation. If your are not running a *memcached* server, remove the part on
caching from your ``local.py``.


Example cronjob
===============

To get new comics, you should run ``getcomics`` regularily. One way is to use ``cron`` e.g. by placing the following in ``/etc/cron.d/comics``:

.. code-block:: sh

    MAILTO=comics@example.com
    PYTHONPATH=/path/to/comics
    1 * * * * comics-user /path/to/comics/comics/manage.py getcomics -v0

By setting ``MAILTO`` any exceptions raised by the comic crawlers will be sent
by mail to the given mail address. ``1 * * * *`` specifies that the command
should be run 1 minute past every hour.

